---
layout: news_post
title: The official ruby snap is available
author: Hiroshi SHIBATA
translator:
date: 2018-11-08 14:58:28 +0000
lang: en
---

We released the official snap package of Ruby language.

https://snapcraft.io/ruby

snap is the package system developed by Canonical. You can distribute the package with necessary libraries by using snap. It solved the problem that users can not use any versions of Ruby interpreter　when using Linux distribution package system like rpm or apt.

For Ubuntu 16.04 or later distribution, you can use Ruby snap with the following command.

    sudo snap install ruby -classic

When you use the Linux distributions other than Ubuntu, Please refer to https://docs.snapcraft.io/installing-snapd/6735.

Ruby snap uses the feature called channel to distribute the currently maintained version. For example, if you do not specify a channel at 2018/11, It will be installed 2.5.3. but if you want to use Ruby 2.4, specify it as follows.

    sudo snap install ruby --classic --channel=2.4/stable

Multiple Ruby versions can be used with the snap feature. For example, to switch to Ruby 2.3, execute the following command.

    sudo snap switch ruby --channel=2.3/stable
    sudo snap refresh

The Ruby snap has set `$HOME/.gem` to `GEM_HOME` and `GEM_PATH` environmental variables. Therefore, if you want to execute commands such as rails and rspec without using `bundle exec`, you need to set the following lines to` .bashrc` and so on.

    eval `ruby.env`

Since `$HOME/.gem` is shared by multiple versions, if you switch versions and use them, you will need to recompile C extensions using the `gem pristine` command.

This ruby snap released the official version for the first time with the snapcraft summit held at the canonical office in London on 6-8 Nov, 2018. The feedback are accepted at [https://github.com/ruby/snap.ruby](http://github.com/ruby/snap.ruby). Please enjoy.
