---
layout: news_post
title: "Multiple jQuery vulnerabilities in RDoc"
author: "aycabta"
translator:
date: 2019-08-28 09:00:00 +0000
tags: security
lang: en
---


There are multiple vulnerabilities about Cross-Site Scripting (XSS) in jQuery that is contained by RDoc bundled with Ruby.
All ruby users are recommended to update ruby to newer version which includes security-fixed RDoc.
If you are publishing RDoc documentation generated by rdoc, you are recommended to re-generate it with security-fixed RDoc.

## Details

The following vulnerabilities have been reported.

* [CVE-2012-6708](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2012-6708)
* [CVE-2015-9251](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2015-9251)

It is strongly recommended for all ruby users to upgrade your Ruby installation or take one of the following workarounds as soon as possible.
After that, you should re-generate RDoc documentation.

## Affected Versions

* Ruby 2.3 series: all
* Ruby 2.4 series: 2.4.6 and earlier
* Ruby 2.5 series: 2.5.5 and earlier
* Ruby 2.6 series: 2.6.3 and earlier
* prior to master commit f308ab2131ee675000926540cbb8c13c91dc3be5

## Workarounds

In principle, you should upgrade your Ruby installation to the latest version.
RDoc 6.1.2 or later includes the fix for the vulnerabilities, so upgrade RDoc to the latest version if you can’t upgrade Ruby itself.

```
gem update --system
```

At this time, the following message will be displayed. Every time you get `Overwrite the executable? [YN]`, enter `y` and confirm with Enter to continue the update.

```
Updating installed gems
Updating rdoc
Fetching: rdoc-6.1.1.gem (100%)
rdoc's executable "rdoc" conflicts with /home/aycabta/.rbenv/versions/2.5.3/bin/rdoc
Overwrite the executable? [yN]  y
rdoc's executable "ri" conflicts with /home/aycabta/.rbenv/versions/2.5.3/bin/ri
Overwrite the executable? [yN]  y
Successfully installed rdoc-6.1.1
Parsing documentation for rdoc-6.1.1
Installing ri documentation for rdoc-6.1.1
Installing darkfish documentation for rdoc-6.1.1
Done installing documentation for rdoc after 6 seconds
Parsing documentation for rdoc-6.1.1
Done installing documentation for rdoc after 3 seconds
Gems updated: rdoc
```

Regarding the development version (master branch), update to HEAD.

RDoc is a static documentation generation tool.
Patching the library itself is insufficient to correct this exploit.
Those hosting rdoc documentation will need to re-generate it with security-fixed RDoc.

## Credits

Thanks to [Chris Seaton](https://hackerone.com/chrisseaton) for reporting the issue.

## History

* Originally published at 2019-08-28 09:00:00 UTC
