vi/community/mailing-lists/index.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: "Hộp thư chung"
lang: vi
---

Hộp thư chung luôn là nơi tốt nhất để giúp bạn hòa nhịp với cộng đồng Ruby.
{: .summary}

Ruby có 4 hộp thư sử dụng tiếng Anh là ngôn ngữ chính sau :

Ruby-Talk
: Đây là hộp thư phổ biến nhất với các chủ đề chung về Ruby.
  ([Lưu trữ][3])

Ruby-Core
: Danh sách này có rất nhiều chủ đề về Ruby core và cách xử lý,
  thường được dùng để thử nghiệm các bản vá lỗi. ([Lưu trữ][4])

Ruby-Doc
: Danh sách này thảo luận các tiêu chuẩn về tài liệu cũng như công cụ cho
  Ruby. ([Lưu trữ][5])

Ruby-CVS
: Danh sách này báo cáo tất cả các commit được lưu trữ tại Ruby-CVS.

The comp.lang.ruby Newsgroup
: Những ai thích Usenet(Unix User Network - hệ thống bảng tin điện tử trên
  phạm vi toàn thế giới) hơn là thông qua hộp thư chung sẽ cần đến nhóm tin
  [comp.lang.ruby](news:comp.lang.ruby).


## Đăng ký theo dõi hoặc Hủy đăng ký

[Đăng ký theo dõi hoặc Hủy đăng ký](https://ml.ruby-lang.org/mailman3/lists/)



[3]: https://ml.ruby-lang.org/archives/list/ruby-talk@ml.ruby-lang.org/
[4]: https://ml.ruby-lang.org/archives/list/ruby-core@ml.ruby-lang.org/
[5]: https://ml.ruby-lang.org/archives/list/ruby-doc@ml.ruby-lang.org/

Commit message:

Refresh Vietnamese (vi) translation from scratch
- Delete all outdated vi/ content (last updated 2017, 72 stale news posts)
- Copy current en/ structure to vi/ with lang: vi frontmatter
- Add all previously missing pages: FAQ, Code of Conduct, Privacy Policy,
  Podcasts, download sub-pages, mailing list guidelines, writing patches
- Update _data/locales/vi.yml with missing nav entries and footer links
- Remove unmaintained warning banner from homepage
- Copy all 500 news posts with lang: vi
- Homepage locale (_data/locales/home/vi.yml) already up-to-date

Content body is in English, ready for incremental Vietnamese translation.
UI chrome (navigation, footer, labels) is fully translated.

vi/community/mailing-lists/index.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: "Mailing Lists"
lang: vi
---

Mailing-lists are a great way to keep your finger on the pulse of the
Ruby community.
{: .summary}

Ruby has four primary English speaking mailing lists:

Ruby-Talk
: This is the most popular mailing-list and deals with general topics
  about Ruby. ([Archives][3], [Posting Guidelines][guidelines], [Community Archive][rubytalk])

Ruby-Core
: This list deals with core and implementation topics about Ruby, often
  used to run patches for review. ([Archives][4])

Ruby-Doc
: This list is for discussing documentation standards and tools for
  Ruby. ([Archives][5])

Ruby-CVS
: This list reports all commits to Ruby’s Subversion repository.

The comp.lang.ruby Newsgroup
: Those who prefer Usenet over mailing lists will want to checkout the
  [comp.lang.ruby](news:comp.lang.ruby) newsgroup. ([FAQ][clrFAQ])

## Subscribe or Unsubscribe

See [https://ml.ruby-lang.org/mailman3/lists/](https://ml.ruby-lang.org/mailman3/lists/)
for more information about all mailing lists on ruby-lang.org,
including the lists in Japanese language.



[guidelines]: ruby-talk-guidelines/
[clrFAQ]: http://rubyhacker.com/clrFAQ.html
[3]: https://ml.ruby-lang.org/archives/list/ruby-talk@ml.ruby-lang.org/
[4]: https://ml.ruby-lang.org/archives/list/ruby-core@ml.ruby-lang.org
[5]: https://ml.ruby-lang.org/archives/list/ruby-doc@ml.ruby-lang.org/
[rubytalk]: https://rubytalk.org/
