en/about/website/index.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: "About the Ruby Website"
lang: en
---

This website was generated with Ruby using [Jekyll][jekyll],<br>
its source is hosted on [GitHub][github-repo].

## Design

The current visual design is by [Taeko Akatsuka][akatsuka].
The site was renewed in December 2025.

Visual design before December 2025 by [Jason Zimdars][jzimdars].<br>
Based on an earlier design by the Ruby Visual Identity Team.

<img src="../../../images/about/screenshot-ruby-lang-old.png" alt="Previous ruby-lang.org design" width="400" style="border: 1px solid #d6d3d1;" />

## Logo

[The Ruby logo][logo] is Copyright &copy; 2006, Yukihiro Matsumoto.


## Reporting Problems ##

To report a problem use the [issue tracker][github-issues]
or contact our [webmaster][webmaster] (in English).


## How to Contribute ##

This website is proudly maintained by members of the Ruby community.

If you wish to contribute, read the [contribution instructions][github-wiki]
and just start opening issues or pull requests!


## Acknowledgments ##

We thank all committers, authors, translators, and other contributors
to this website.

Also many thanks to the organizations that support us:

<table class="not-prose sponsor-table">
  <tr>
    <td><a href="http://www.ruby.or.jp">Ruby Association</a> (hosting)</td>
    <td class="sponsor-logo"><img src="../../../images/about/sponsor/ra.png" alt="Ruby Association" /></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="http://ruby-no-kai.org/">Ruby no Kai</a> (build server)</td>
    <td class="sponsor-logo"><img src="../../../images/about/sponsor/ruby-no-kai.png" alt="Ruby no Kai" /></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://aws.amazon.com/">AWS</a> (hosting)</td>
    <td class="sponsor-logo"><img src="../../../images/about/sponsor/aws.png" alt="AWS" style="width: 150px;" /></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://www.heroku.com/">Heroku</a> (hosting)</td>
    <td class="sponsor-logo"><img src="../../../images/about/sponsor/heroku.png" alt="Heroku" style="width: 100px;" /></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://www.ibm.com/">IBM</a> (hosting)</td>
    <td class="sponsor-logo"></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="http://www.fastly.com">Fastly</a> (CDN)</td>
    <td class="sponsor-logo"><img src="../../../images/about/sponsor/fastly.png" alt="Fastly" style="width: 200px;" /></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="http://hatenacorp.jp/">Hatena</a> (<a href="https://mackerel.io/">Mackerel</a>, server monitoring)</td>
    <td class="sponsor-logo"><img src="../../../images/about/sponsor/mackerel.png" alt="Mackerel" /></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://www.datadoghq.com/">Datadog</a> (server monitoring)</td>
    <td class="sponsor-logo"><img src="../../../images/about/sponsor/dd.png" alt="Datadog" style="width: 120px;" /></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://1password.com/">1Password</a> (password manager)</td>
    <td class="sponsor-logo"><img src="../../../images/about/sponsor/1password.png" alt="1Password" style="width: 250px;" /></td>
  </tr>
</table>

[logo]: /en/about/logo/
[webmaster]: mailto:webmaster@ruby-lang.org
[jekyll]: http://www.jekyllrb.com/
[akatsuka]: https://x.com/ken_c_lo
[jzimdars]: https://twitter.com/jasonzimdars
[github-repo]: https://github.com/ruby/www.ruby-lang.org/
[github-issues]: https://github.com/ruby/www.ruby-lang.org/issues
[github-wiki]: https://github.com/ruby/www.ruby-lang.org/wiki

Commit message:

Add credit for footer's Happy Hacking! to about/website page
* Added note that the "Happy Hacking!" in the footer is handwritten by @matz
* Added headings to better organize content by separating the current top page screenshot from the previous design description

en/about/website/index.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: "About the Ruby Website"
lang: en
---

This website was generated with Ruby using [Jekyll][jekyll],<br>
its source is hosted on [GitHub][github-repo].

## Design

The current visual design is by [Taeko Akatsuka][akatsuka].
The site was renewed in December 2025.

<img src="../../../images/about/screenshot.png" alt="Current ruby-lang.org design" width="400" style="border: 1px solid #d6d3d1;" />

The "Happy Hacking" in the footer is handwritten by [Yukihiro Matsumoto (Matz)][matz].

<img src="../../../images/about/screenshot-happy-hacking.png" alt="Happy Hacking on Footer" width="400" style="border: 1px solid #d6d3d1;" />

## Previous Design

Visual design before December 2025 by [Jason Zimdars][jzimdars].<br>
Based on an earlier design by the Ruby Visual Identity Team.

<img src="../../../images/about/screenshot-ruby-lang-old.png" alt="Previous ruby-lang.org design" width="400" style="border: 1px solid #d6d3d1;" />

## Logo

[The Ruby logo][logo] is Copyright &copy; 2006, Yukihiro Matsumoto.


## Reporting Problems ##

To report a problem use the [issue tracker][github-issues]
or contact our [webmaster][webmaster] (in English).


## How to Contribute ##

This website is proudly maintained by members of the Ruby community.

If you wish to contribute, read the [contribution instructions][github-wiki]
and just start opening issues or pull requests!


## Acknowledgments ##

We thank all committers, authors, translators, and other contributors
to this website.

Also many thanks to the organizations that support us:

<table class="not-prose sponsor-table">
  <tr>
    <td><a href="http://www.ruby.or.jp">Ruby Association</a> (hosting)</td>
    <td class="sponsor-logo"><img src="../../../images/about/sponsor/ra.png" alt="Ruby Association" /></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="http://ruby-no-kai.org/">Ruby no Kai</a> (build server)</td>
    <td class="sponsor-logo"><img src="../../../images/about/sponsor/ruby-no-kai.png" alt="Ruby no Kai" /></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://aws.amazon.com/">AWS</a> (hosting)</td>
    <td class="sponsor-logo"><img src="../../../images/about/sponsor/aws.png" alt="AWS" style="width: 150px;" /></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://www.heroku.com/">Heroku</a> (hosting)</td>
    <td class="sponsor-logo"><img src="../../../images/about/sponsor/heroku.png" alt="Heroku" style="width: 100px;" /></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://www.ibm.com/">IBM</a> (hosting)</td>
    <td class="sponsor-logo"></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="http://www.fastly.com">Fastly</a> (CDN)</td>
    <td class="sponsor-logo"><img src="../../../images/about/sponsor/fastly.png" alt="Fastly" style="width: 200px;" /></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="http://hatenacorp.jp/">Hatena</a> (<a href="https://mackerel.io/">Mackerel</a>, server monitoring)</td>
    <td class="sponsor-logo"><img src="../../../images/about/sponsor/mackerel.png" alt="Mackerel" /></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://www.datadoghq.com/">Datadog</a> (server monitoring)</td>
    <td class="sponsor-logo"><img src="../../../images/about/sponsor/dd.png" alt="Datadog" style="width: 120px;" /></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://1password.com/">1Password</a> (password manager)</td>
    <td class="sponsor-logo"><img src="../../../images/about/sponsor/1password.png" alt="1Password" style="width: 250px;" /></td>
  </tr>
</table>

[logo]: /en/about/logo/
[webmaster]: mailto:webmaster@ruby-lang.org
[jekyll]: http://www.jekyllrb.com/
[akatsuka]: https://x.com/ken_c_lo
[matz]: https://x.com/yukihiro_matz
[jzimdars]: https://twitter.com/jasonzimdars
[github-repo]: https://github.com/ruby/www.ruby-lang.org/
[github-issues]: https://github.com/ruby/www.ruby-lang.org/issues
[github-wiki]: https://github.com/ruby/www.ruby-lang.org/wiki
