en/community/podcasts/index.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: "Podcasts"
lang: en
---

Listen to news, interviews, and discussions about Ruby and its community.

[Ruby Rogues][rogues]
: The Ruby Rogues podcast is a panel discussion about topics relating to
  programming, careers, community, and Ruby.

[Ruby on Rails Podcast][rorpodcast]
: The Ruby on Rails Podcast, a weekly conversation about Ruby on Rails,
  open source software, and the programming profession.

[Remote Ruby][remote_ruby]
: Virtual meetup turned podcast, Remote Ruby celebrates and highlights
  the Ruby community in an informal setting.

[Rooftop Ruby][rooftop_ruby]
: Collin and Joel discuss Ruby, software development, open source, career,
  and a lot more together and with guests.

### Getting Involved

Podcast hosts are always looking for guests. If you have some Ruby
wisdom to share, get in touch with the creators of these shows.

You can also start your own Ruby podcast and get added to this list!

[rooftop_ruby]: https://www.rooftopruby.com
[remote_ruby]: https://www.remoteruby.com
[rorpodcast]: https://www.therubyonrailspodcast.com
[rogues]: https://rubyrogues.com

Commit message:

Adding On Rails podcast to the english podcasts page

en/community/podcasts/index.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: "Podcasts"
lang: en
---

Listen to news, interviews, and discussions about Ruby and its community.

[On Rails][onrails]
: On Rails invites Rails developers to share real-world technical 
  challenges  and solutions, architectural decisions, and lessons learned while building with Ruby on Rails.

[Ruby Rogues][rogues]
: The Ruby Rogues podcast is a panel discussion about topics relating to
  programming, careers, community, and Ruby.

[Ruby on Rails Podcast][rorpodcast]
: The Ruby on Rails Podcast, a weekly conversation about Ruby on Rails,
  open source software, and the programming profession. 

[Remote Ruby][remote_ruby]
: Virtual meetup turned podcast, Remote Ruby celebrates and highlights
  the Ruby community in an informal setting.

[Rooftop Ruby][rooftop_ruby]
: Collin and Joel discuss Ruby, software development, open source, career,
  and a lot more together and with guests.

### Getting Involved

Podcast hosts are always looking for guests. If you have some Ruby
wisdom to share, get in touch with the creators of these shows.

You can also start your own Ruby podcast and get added to this list!

[onrails]: https://onrails.buzzsprout.com/
[rooftop_ruby]: https://www.rooftopruby.com
[remote_ruby]: https://www.remoteruby.com
[rorpodcast]: https://www.therubyonrailspodcast.com
[rogues]: https://rubyrogues.com
