en/community/weblogs/index.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: "Blogs"
lang: en
---

Ruby blogs have exploded over the past years and given sufficient
hunting, you can unearth hundreds of blogs sharing bits of Ruby code,
describing new techniques, or speculating on Ruby’s future.
{: .summary}

### Mining for Ruby Blogs

* [**RubyFlow**][rubyflow], “the Ruby and Rails community linklog”,
  is a Ruby news site with links to libraries, blog posts, tutorials,
  and other Ruby resources.
* [**Rubyland**][rubyland] aggregates news and blog posts about Ruby
  from RSS feeds.

### Blogs of Note

A few notable blogs stand out for the frequency and immediacy of their
updates.

* [**Ruby Weekly**][ruby-weekly]: Although more of a newsletter than a
  blog, Ruby Weekly is a distillation of the most interesting Ruby
  articles and news each week.
* [**DEV Ruby Tag**][dev-ruby-tag] is the collection of all posts
  tagged Ruby within the DEV Community. DEV is a network of thousands
  of software developers who blog about and discuss code.
* [**Riding Rails**][riding-rails] is the official group blog of the
  Ruby on Rails team. If you are running Rails, this blog is essential
  for notification of security updates and an overall view of the wide
  Rails community.

### Spreading the Word

If you're interested in writing for any of the above blogs, you should
contact the authors.

Ruby is also a common topic on [reddit][reddit] and [Hacker News][hn],
in their respective programming news. If you find some brilliant code
out there, be sure to share!


[rubyflow]: http://www.rubyflow.com/
[rubyland]: http://rubyland.news/
[ruby-weekly]: https://rubyweekly.com/
[dev-ruby-tag]: https://dev.to/t/ruby
[riding-rails]: http://weblog.rubyonrails.org/
[reddit]: http://www.reddit.com/r/ruby
[hn]: http://news.ycombinator.com/

Commit message:

Add newsletters to community content

en/community/weblogs/index.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: "Blogs and Newsletters"
lang: en
---

Ruby blogs and newsletters have exploded over the past years and given
sufficient hunting, you can unearth hundreds of blogs sharing bits of
Ruby code, describing new techniques, or speculating on Ruby’s future.
{: .summary}

### Newsletters

* [**Ruby Weekly**][ruby-weekly]: A newsletter that curates the most interesting Ruby articles and news each week.
* [**Short Ruby Newsletter**][short-ruby-newsletter]: A weekly summary of the articles, discussions, and news from the Ruby community.

### Mining for Ruby Blogs

* [**RubyFlow**][rubyflow], “the Ruby and Rails community linklog”,
  is a Ruby news site with links to libraries, blog posts, tutorials,
  and other Ruby resources.
* [**Rubyland**][rubyland] aggregates news and blog posts about Ruby
  from RSS feeds.

### Blogs of Note

A few notable blogs stand out for the frequency and immediacy of their
updates.

* [**DEV Ruby Tag**][dev-ruby-tag] is the collection of all posts
  tagged Ruby within the DEV Community. DEV is a network of thousands
  of software developers who blog about and discuss code.
* [**Riding Rails**][riding-rails] is the official group blog of the
  Ruby on Rails team. If you are running Rails, this blog is essential
  for notification of security updates and an overall view of the wide
  Rails community.

### Spreading the Word

If you're interested in writing for any of the above blogs, you should
contact the authors.

Ruby is also a common topic on [reddit][reddit] and [Hacker News][hn],
in their respective programming news. If you find some brilliant code
out there, be sure to share!


[rubyflow]: http://www.rubyflow.com/
[rubyland]: http://rubyland.news/
[ruby-weekly]: https://rubyweekly.com/
[dev-ruby-tag]: https://dev.to/t/ruby
[riding-rails]: https://rubyonrails.org/blog/
[reddit]: http://www.reddit.com/r/ruby
[hn]: http://news.ycombinator.com/
[short-ruby-newsletter]: https://newsletter.shortruby.com/
