---
layout: news_post
title: "Upcoming Ruby Programming Competitions with Matz - Grand Prize - 1,000,000 JPY!"
author: "James Edward Gray II"
lang: en
---

Dear Ruby Enthusiasts:

The Government of Fukuoka, Japan together with \"Matz\" Matsumoto would
like to invite you to enter the following Ruby competitions. If you have
developed an interesting Ruby program, please be encouraged to apply.

* Silicon Valley Competition (November 3, 2011 in Silicon Valley), Entry
  Deadline: October 17, 2011

Selected finalists will present their Ruby programs in front of Matz on
November 3, 2011 in Silicon Valley (exact location to be announced
later). Matz, together with a panel of judges, will select the winner.
The winner will be invited to Fukuoka, Japan for an award ceremony to be
held in March 2012 (hotel and airfare paid). If you enter the Silicon
Valley competition, you will also be automatically entered in the
Fukuoka competition described below.

* Fukuoka Competition - Grand Prize - 1 Million Yen! (March 2012 in
  Fukuoka, Japan), Entry Deadline: November 15, 2011

You can enter the Fukuoka competition exclusively, or enter the above
Silicon Valley Competition and be automatically entered in the Fukuoka
Competition. Matz and a group of panelists will select the winners of
the Fukuoka Competition. The grand prize winner will be invited to
attend the award ceremony in Fukuoka, Japan in March 2012 (hotel and
airfare paid). The grand prize for the Fukuoka Competition is 1 million
yen(approximately $13,000!). Past grand prize winners include Rhomobile
(USA) and APEC Climate Center (Korea).

Programs entered in these competitions do not have to be written
entirely in Ruby but should take advantage of the unique characteristics
of Ruby. Projects must have been developed or completed within the past
12 months to be eligible.

Please visit the following Fukuoka website for additional details or to
enter:

[http://www.myfukuoka.com/events/2012-fukuoka-ruby-award-competition][1]

Cheers.



[1]: http://www.myfukuoka.com/events/2012-fukuoka-ruby-award-competition
